- [Tutor] Modern Java applications are frequently developed
with the help of third-party libraries
like the Spring Framework or Hibernate.
Build tools like Gradle
provide dependency management features
that can help us include these libraries
and their dependencies within our projects.
If we scroll down inside of our build script,
you'll notice that we already have a few dependencies
declared within the dependencies section of the build.
Let's first talk about the Guava dependency.
You'll notice that we define the ID
for the Guava dependency by first specifying its group ID,
then its artifact ID, followed by its version.
You'll also notice that the dependency
is declared with a scope of implementation.
This indicates that Guava is a compile time
and a runtime dependency for our project.
On the other hand,
you'll notice that the Junit dependency
is declared with a scope of test implementation.
This tells Gradle that it's only used for compiling
and running the source code for the project's test.
The build script also specifies where these dependencies
are pulled from by including a repositories section.
The repositories block is configured
to pull dependencies from the Maven repository.
So when a build needs these dependencies,
that's where they're going to be downloaded
from the first time.
Then after that first run,
these dependencies will be stored locally
within Gradle's cache.
So then the next time Gradle needs them,
they can be fetched locally,
and we won't need to download them from Maven Central.
Let's head out to Maven Central
to find a dependency we can include within our project.
I'm just going to use the Hibernate Core as our example.
So I'll go ahead and search for it.
And then I'm going to click on the first item in the list.
On this page,
we'll see some information about the dependency.
You'll notice that it's currently set up
to pull a beta version.
Let's switch that up and get something more reliable.
So I'm going to switch to 5.5.8.final.
On the right side of the page
you'll notice that we get a groovy DSL snippet
that we can use to include the dependency
within our build script.
So let's go ahead and we'll copy that.
And then we'll head back over to Eclipse
and we'll paste it inside
the dependencies section of our build.
I'm going to go ahead and save that file.
And then I'm going to navigate to a terminal window
so we can inspect the dependencies within our build.
To do that I'm going to use my local Gradle installation
to execute the dependencies task.
This will give us more information
about the dependencies within our project
and where they come into play on the different class pass.
Now that we've executed the task,
let's scroll up to see its output.
Let's start here with the compile time class path.
You'll notice that the Guava dependency
and the Hibernate Core dependency
were included on the compile time class path.
Now, you'll also notice
that all of their transitive dependencies
were pulled for us.
So that's work we didn't have to do.
If we continue to scroll down,
you'll see that these dependencies
were also included on the runtime class path,
but notice what's missing, it's Junit.
And that's because J unit was only included
on the compile time class path for our test.
If we scroll down a little bit within this section,
there you'll see that it's added.
So those are some of the basics
of managing dependencies with Gradle
And you can see how easy
it makes it to pull external libraries into our projects.